---
layout: post
title: Things That Made Me Cry Yesterday
date: 2016-12-09
summary: Within the next seven days I have to finish Left Behind books 8-10. I'm starting to feel the pressure. I'm also starting to feel the toll that reading seven of these poorly written books takes on a human...
categories: bridge-to-carpathia
---
Within the next seven days I have to finish Left Behind books 8-10. I'm starting to feel the pressure. I'm also starting to feel the toll that reading seven of these poorly written books takes on a human. That's nearly 3,000 pages of strange sentence construction, horrific character development, groan-inducing dad jokes, groan-inducing "flirting," and groan-inducing dated references. I have been groaning a lot. Just ask my roommates. Also half of my text message threads are basically just a snapshot of the latest ridiculous writing and then something to the effect of "UGHHHHHHHHHH. STOPPPPPPPP." So I'm doing well, how are you?

For those of you who have been spared my rants, you will not get out of this unscathed. I present to you the things about <em>The Indwelling</em> that made me want to cry.

<ul>
<li>**The "Net":** The books were written in the 90s and early aughts. You can tell. They really like referring to the internet as "the Net." There were lots of references to "videodiscs" in <em>The Indwelling</em>. Also there are a lot of issues that could have been resolved with texting. Guess that wasn't a thing. Also a heavy reliance on satellites for any sort of connection.
<li>**Leah and Rayford's relationship:** There's this new character that has actually been in the series since book 5 (who can even keep track anymore?) named Leah. She is a nurse and basically Doc's replacement, in fact she joins the Power Rangers as Doc dies. She and Rayford always get in arguments that make no sense. My roommate and I fear that Jenkins is setting them up for a middle-school/rom-com style "We-never-get-along-but-secretly-we-are-in-love-with-each-other" revelation. But seriously they are totally fine and then suddenly are yelling and super petty with each other. Rayford realized that he wasn't acting very Christian in the last book (you know, when he dropped everything to murder Carpathia) and has asked for forgiveness but they still can't play nice.</li>
<li>**Chloe wanting to commit "infanticide":** Such a concept probably seems weird to you. It is just as weird even if you've read all of the books. First off, who uses the word "infanticide" conversationally? And are we really buying that out of the blue Chloe is so worried about her child being taken away and brainwashed by the Carpathians that she would kill him (she has a syringe of potassium chloride hidden under her bed for real)? It's like she has late-onset post-partum depression when he's 14 months old. Then again, insanity and psychopathy may run in her family (see Rayford) so there's that. She even tries to get other people to promise to kill Kenny the baby if she isn't around when the bad guys come. It's very odd.
<li>**Guy and David's relationship:** Guy is some artist who has been commissioned to create a 24 foot tall exact replica art installation of naked Carpathia. The way Jenkins characterizes Guy is basically a character from <em>Zoolander</em> or <em>Blades of Glory</em>. For some reason David Hassid has to help Guy get everything together to make this statue and their interactions mostly consist of David refusing to refer to Guy by his title and Guy getting flustered by this and thus calling David, "Hayseed." IS THIS BOOK WRITTEN BY 6TH GRADERS??? How did David ever get a Director-level position? The rapture, earthquake, and plagues really must have killed off all qualified individuals.</li>
<li>**Art:** I don't know what Jenkins thinks is art but it's clear he has an extremely narrow view of what qualifies as art. Also David keeps on making a huge deal about the fact that the statue is going to be naked. Dude better not go to any art museum.</li>
<li>**"We don't do luck":** The Power Rangers's favorite saying. Anytime someone leaves the relative safety of their earthquake-ravaged house (that they are basically squatters in since the previous owners died in the earthquake and they literally had to saw around one of the bodies to bury it and commandeer the house, sorry sometimes I get carried away with ALL OF THE PLOT) and someone else accidentally says something to the effect of "good luck" the other Power Ranger will say "we don't do luck" or think it or explain why they don't do luck. This run-on sentence was brought to you by Jenkins and my quickly vanishing sanity.</li>
<li>**David and Annie's relationship:** I thought that Chloe and Buck would be the last of the awkward flirting. But no, there's David and Annie. Suffice it to say that at one point they look at each other through binoculars and hold up one finger, four fingers, and then three fingers to signal "I love you." <strike>I'll show you a finger.</strike></li>
<li>**Tsion's space travel:** Tsion doesn't write as many sermons in this book. Instead he is a couch potato babysitting Kenny the baby and like a responsible adult falls asleep on the job and has what seems to be quite the drug-induced trip (maybe he accidentally dosed himself with the syringe of poison under the cushion). He basically floats out of his body, up up and away until he's talking with the angel Gabriel and witnesses the post-death Platform 9 and 3/4s scene from HP7 (the transformation of Lucifer to the dragon is actually strangely similar to Harry and the weird baby-Voldemort). After the first incident Tsion comes back to Earth and baby Kenny. But then it. happens. again. This time he witnesses the angel Michael battling Lucifer/Carpathia the Romanian Longhorn (sidenote: this is a real Harry Potter dragon breed and now I'm starting to get suspicious of that Rowling lady).</li>
<li>**Ming's and Ming's family's Asian-ness:** Ming is a Chinese believer who works at the Belgian GC facility that Hattie was supposed to be at but ended up not at. She is very "Asian." Proof of her Asian-ness comes in the form of the following: She knows martial arts. Her father greets her with a handshake. Her parents bow at everyone. Her father is rich and very demanding and doesn't understand how to behave at Carpathia's memorial service (What are you, an alien???). As an Asian I can vouch for Ming's Asian-ness.</li>
<li>**Tsion's powerful ears:** If you were asked, "Do you recognize the sound of the Land Rover? I mean, could you confidently distinguish it from, say, a GC Jeep?" You would most likely say no. The probability of you being able to tell the difference while hiding underground in your bunker would definitely decrease. But Tsion says, "I believe I could." Ok then, go go gadget Extendable Ears.</li>
<li>**"Exclusivistic"**: Too. Many. Suffixeseseses.</li>

<h3>Closing Thoughts</h3>

**Moment of silence for the dead:** T (pilots dropping left and right, don't worry they gained a new pilot believer in Albie)

**Risen from the dead:** Carpathia, <strike>Harry Potter</strike>

**Questions for me:**
Why are you doing this again?

**Current excitement level:** 3. I'm in a dark place. But there's a light at the end of the tunnel. Is it an angel? Shut up, of course it isn't, I'm not on drugs. It's the warmth of an Orlando Christmas.

<hr>
Read all installments of my Bridge to Carpathia series <a href="https://hsureads.github.io/category/bridge-to-carpathia/">here</a>.
